(A) The title of the homework and the author’s name 

     MetroSim by Josh Lamothe 
     7/4/2022

(B) The purpose of the program.

     The purpose of this program is to create a simulation of the 
     MBTA green line in Boston. This simulation adds and removes
      passengers with the FIFO method

(C) Acknowledgements for any help you received.

     I recieved help from Professor Sheldon and his video lectures
    I also recieved help from Professor Allen and his Lab04 and lab 5
    I had help from CS11 hw 6 on reading in files
     I had help from all the TAs and David (the ACE++ instructor)



Compile/run:
     - Compile using
            make MetroSim
     - run executable with
            ./MetroSim stationsFile outputFile [commands]


Files: 

main.cpp:
     this is the driver file that creates a metro sim instance and also runs 
     metrosim. main which is the driver inside of metro sim

MetroSim.cpp:
     Implementation of MetroSim class.  Main
     functionality of running the Metro Simulation, it
     move trains and deal with passengers going on/off the train.

MetroSim.h:
     Interface of MetroSim class.

stations.txt:
     an example file containing a list of stations.

testst.txt:
     file used for testing, 5 stations created, allows for faster testing

test_commands.txt:
     sample list of commands that you could give to the simulator

command.txt:
     file used for testing, contains commands for the train

the_metroSim:
     reference implementation for students to see how
     the program works

Passenger.cpp:
     implementation of the passenger struct 

Passenger.h:
     interface of the passenger struct 

PassengerQueue.cpp:
     implementation of the passengerqueue class

PassengerQueue.h:
     interface of the passengerqueue class

Makefile:
     Compiles and links all necessary files for Metro Sim



Data Structures:

     In this project the data structure I chose to use was vectors
     Vectors are very similar to array list, however you do not have to 
     resize mannually which is extremely helpful. Another benefit of the vector
     is that you are able to access specific indexes through the [] operator
     which makes accessing different indexes a lot easier.
     At the beginning I was using the queue data structure which was nearly 
     perfect, however accessing different indexes of the queue was 
     a lot more difficult which is what led me to using the vector structure.
     Vectors had functions that allowed me to add new passengers to the back
     and remove old passengers from the front which was perfect for this 
     assignment

     the time complexity of accessing elements in the vector was a lot faster
     that looping through the queue and stopping where it was needed. 
     This vectors to be a lot more efficient in accessing passenger queues
     which was something done often in this project.



Testing:

In order to test a lot was done ,because there was a lot of debugging with 
this project


unit test were made to test the passengers and passenger queue
     here two test were created
     one testing printing a singular passenger
     the other made a passenger queue of size 2 and printed it out
     both worked properly which allowed me to move to the next phase

two functions were made to test the two vectors that held information
read in from the files

station test and command test were both testing functions that I used to make sure
the vectors of strings were holding the right things
in these functions the vectors were printed in the output file
this allowed for the output file to be tested along with the vectors containing
information from the files.

I also made two new .txt files to test my metro sim
     testst.txt is a file containing 5 stations
     these five stations were a couple of my friends housing and they allowed 
     me to see how my metrosim was working compared to the refernce version
     having only 5 stations allowed for me to see what happens when the 
     train goes back to the top.
     Having less stations made everything more clear so this was a great way 
     to test 

     command.txt was a command file used to test how my program reacted to 
     different commands. here I did multiple versions of commands
     i made the file empty to see what my program would do and I tested edge 
     cases like adding a passenger to a station out of range
     I removed the commands that cause errors so that I could compare outputs
     with the reference version

The main way I tested was through diff testing. Diff testing the outputs of 
the reference along with my own allowed me to find the bugs in my code
I made two output files, one for the reference and one of my own version
One huge problem was people were geting off at the right stations but in 
the wrong order. this was fixed because for some reason I was converting the 
strings into integers improperly ,but diff testing allowed me to see where
the differences were which helped a lot.

overall just comparing what the reference had to what mine was doing by 
inputting the same commands was a very effective way to test my code


Part that you found most difficult:


Honesty I had the most difficulty with using the autograder.
 It wasn't very friendly to someone learning how to improve their code. 
 It was very hard to understand what was going wrong with my code
and what test I was failing.

autograder test like "no mf empty command" are not very specific on what is 
wrong with your code

a lot of time I was under the assumption that something wasn't working properly
when in fact i was simply missing a "Command? " and not getting proper 
feedback on that causes me to fix something that was already working and 
break the code I had that already worked. this causes me to further
increase the time i spent debugging this project.

this project took me 35 hours.

